Remember when we spoke about your balance sheet
in exercise number seven, and how all of the stuff
in your possession, meaning assets, is either owned by
a bank or owned by you, you meaning equity.
So companies can raise money in two similar ways.
One way is by getting a loan, meaning a liability,
which in many cases is a bond, and they will have to pay
back this loan, meaning the bond, because of the loan,
and the other way companies raise money
by selling part of their company to you and I, right?
And that means they sell stocks, meaning they sell equity
in their company to us.
Now governments cannot sell parts of themselves
to us or other governments or other companies.
Governments don't issue stocks.
Governments issue bonds, meaning loans,
so they can pay for stuff like building bridges or roads
or parks or airports, etc.
And so stocks have had an annual average return
since the 1920s of about 10%.
Government bonds, however, have had an annual average return
of 5%, and we're gonna talk about stocks now
and we will discuss bonds a little bit later.
Stocks are riskier, so please own more stocks
when you are younger,
and we'll talk about diversification soon, okay?
Bonds are less risky than stocks,
so please own more bonds when you're older.
And so we're gonna talk about how to diversify
your investments later as I mentioned, but for now,
we're gonna tweak this, but I'm want to give you
a simple risk management-based rule for you to understand
how much in terms of stocks you should own
and how much bonds, and I'm gonna build on this a lot later
and change this a bit but here's what we're gonna do, okay?
I want you to take 100 minus your age,
and that is the percent of your investments
that should be in riskier investments, okay?
For example, if you are 70 years old,
then 100 minus 70 equals 30, and this is how much
as a percent of your portfolio to think about investing
in riskier investments like stocks, okay?
The other 70% of your portfolio
should probably be in lower-risk investments
with lower return potential
as we can't recover quickly enough if we lose money
when we get older, okay?
So again, I'm gonna tweak this 100 minus your age
diversification strategy soon and build more logic
on top of it.
Okay, no more talk about diversification
for a little while now.
Let's just focus on individual investments.
And as you know,
I designed your investment portfolio management system,
meaning your portfolio gray button here,
I designed it so that it can account for stocks,
commodities, bonds, and real estate investment trusts
and more.
What I'm going to do in a minute is I'm gonna go through
your investment portfolio management system
in a lot of detail, meaning I am going to explain
all of the columns of data in your portfolio.
But before I do that, I want to discuss
four stock market investing best practices,
or four rules that I've learned in my many years
of making mistakes from investing and some successes too.
Okay, stock picking rule number one is we don't ever trade.
We don't ever trade or else investing in stocks
is like a casino
and you can't accumulate wealth, and Warren Buffett said,
"The longer the view, the wiser the intention."
So before buying any stock,
again we'll ask ourselves that simple question.
In five years, is this company going to be more relevant
or less relevant than it is today?
Most Wall Street investors are fooled by randomness
and they're not long-term focused enough,
and this is why 95% of mutual funds
cannot outperform indexes.
And you will beat these mutual funds as well.
Number two, rule number two.
Do your own research always.
We need to always, always, always please form
our own opinions as the opinions of other people,
especially when it involves money is biased.
People are biased, okay?
I'm not saying they're unethical but hear me out here.
When you go to a clothing store,
and the salesperson at the clothing store
works on commission, they'll often influence you
to buy certain items because of the fact
that they get commissions, and it gets absolutely worse
as you know when buying real estate or a car,
as they are often, these salespeople are thinking
with their wallet.
They don't have your best interest in mind.
Also, please never, ever, ever, ever, ever, please,
never rely on the media for investment advice, okay?
Why?
Because they're biased and because the people they interview
on television are almost always biased as well,
and I'm not saying the people they interview
are unethical at all, but the people they interview
are investment professionals that already own stocks
and of course, they're gonna say positive things
about the stocks they own.
Also, if a financial journalist interviews a CEO
of a company, of course the CEO's gonna say great things
about that company.
You know, they're great salespeople.
That's how they became CEO, right?
It's not just because they're smarter than us.
You know, they're just great salespeople,
and CEOs are probably the best salespeople in the world
so just be careful, and I want you to question everything.
Always do your own research.
Protect yourself and your family,
and just don't watch finance programs
because they're very biased.
You know that the media can really mess with your head,
and if a friend of yours one day comes up to you
offering you the chance to invest in their company,
I want you to ask yourself one basic question in your head.
Why am I so lucky to be given this opportunity?
Okay, just question everything please.
Okay, I think you know what I'm getting at.
And so I'm gonna show you more information
on how to do your own research in the next lesson
when you go through your investment portfolio
management system.
And if you get a chance,
I want you to please watch this video on the awful impact
that the media had on many people's life savings in 2008.
The president and I talked to earlier in the day yesterday
about watching it.
I enjoyed it thoroughly.
What was it?
A major speech, a legislative breakthrough?
How the hell did we end up here, Mr. Kramer?
No, it was Thursday night's Daily Show
where host Jon Stewart skewered CNBC financial pundit
Jim Kramer.
I can't reconcile the brilliance and knowledge
that you have in the intricacies of the market
with the crazy bull(bleep) I see you do every night.
There's a market for it and you give it to 'em
and I think we do--
There's a market for cocaine and hookers.
You knew what the banks were doing, and yet,
were touting it for months and months.
The entire network was, and so now to pretend
that this was some sort of crazy, once-in-a-lifetime tsunami
that nobody could have seen coming, is disingenuous at best
and criminal at worst.
Like a prosecutor bearing down
on a decidedly uncomfortable witness,
Stewart argued that the financial network
and by extension much of the business press
had given the public a false sense of financial security.
And the Bulls and the Bears are duking it out.
But as Stewart himself said,
Jim Kramer was not the real target of his anger.
The voice of experience you can trust.
And CNBC is at root a symptom
of what was happened over the last year and a half.
It's a network with a very small audience of about 300,000
but a very affluent one, with a relentless,
at times hypercaffeinated intensity
that's focused on the day-to-day movement of the markets.
It's been another one of those days, up and down
and up and down and--
The reason they exist is to do this moment by moment.
What's gonna happen tomorrow, and you know,
I think that's pretty much a mug's game in terms of
what it can actually tell ordinary people.
And you guys knew that that was going on.
The core of Stewart's anger is his belief
that in its coverage, and in its lack of skepticism,
much of the press was painting one picture to the public
while knowing full well that the reality was very different.
And that it is a game that you know,
that you know is going on, but that you go on television
as a financial network and pretend isn't happening.
Actually, says New Yorker financial writer
Jim Surowiecki, much of Wall Street's problem
was that it fooled itself.
A lot of guys on Wall Street, one way or another,
drank their own Kool-Aid.
Now, with the disappearance
of $50 trillion, four-and-a-half million jobs
and an immeasurable loss of financial well-being,
the anger at what has happened is showing up
across the media universe.
It reaches from ABC News,
which followed the corporate jet travels
of Bank of America's CEO like OJ-like focus,
to a piece on a lavish weekend party
thrown by a Chicago bank.
That aired on TMZ, a site mostly featuring
the misbehavior of celebrities.
But the real issue is this.
How do we get the hard questions asked
before things go wrong?
That is the very serious question
the late-night comedian was raising.
Katie.
All right, Jeff Greenfield.
Jeff, thank you for your perspective on that.
Okay, moving on.
In terms of what to read, aside from annual reports,
I'd recommend reading The Wall Street Journal,
not the editorials in it,
but just kind of like what happened and why.
You'll understand why bonds are issued
or why stocks go up or why stocks go down.
Don't read someone else's opinion on what to buy, okay?
Aside from The Wall Street Journal,
I also like the Financial Times, ft.com,
just to understand sectors
from a high-level market perspective
and just to stay informed with how the world works,
the world of finance works, okay?
And if you ever have questions about finance concepts,
or how the world of finance works,
just ask me in the course and I'll humbly do my best
to answer, and if I don't have an answer for you right away,
I'll do research for you, okay?
Okay, and when you do your own research,
if you can't understand the company,
then don't invest in it.
And when I used to work at a big hedge fund,
we had portfolio meetings and we had to discuss
what stocks to buy and why and my boss would always tell me,
"Chris, if you can't explain it, you don't understand it."
It's so true, it's so true, okay?
And I remember when I was in business school in 1999,
I am dating myself again here, but back in 1999,
at business school, Warren Buffett came and taught
one of my classes, and I remember a classmate of mine
was pitching a tech stock to him during class,
and after about 30 seconds into the stock pitch,
Warren Buffett very nicely interrupted and said,
"Son, I'm gonna interrupt you.
"I'm gonna interrupt you there because I don't understand
"where this company will be in two, three, four,
"or five years product cycle-wise," right?
And then he went on, Warren Buffett then went on to say
that he didn't like to invest much in technology
as he didn't really understand the sector
as well as other sectors, and he was dead right,
as this was December of 1999
and I think it was three months later, in March of 2000,
when the tech market crash started.
So just keep it simple when you do your own research
as well.
I remember another time, Warren Buffett was on a panel
years ago, and the topic of this panel was
Can Newspapers Stay Relevant in the Long Run,
and everybody was arguing their points, and of course,
there was a lot of bias on this panel
because these people worked at big newspaper companies,
and Warren Buffett then said something
which caused everybody to remain silent for a while.
And I love Buffett because he keeps things so simple,
and that's why he's so successful, in his long-term focus.
Warren Buffett said this.
If the internet was invented before newspapers were,
would newspapers even exist?
It's pretty smart, simple but smart, right?
Just keep it simple when you do your own research,
and Buffett years ago, I remember he,
when he was talking about Coca-Cola as a great investment
many, many, many years ago, he basically said,
"I think people are gonna drink more Coke
"in the future than they do today," right?
Anyway, that was interesting.
Number three, be a contrarian.
Warren Buffett famously said,
"Be fearful when others are greedy,
"and be greedy when others are fearful."
You want to buy when other people are not buying
and vice versa.
And just be unemotional about investing as well.
You know, if everybody loves a stock,
then who is the incremental investor?
Be a contrarian, especially when you want to start
buying a new stock position in your portfolio.
I want you to patiently wait for a big pullback.
And Wall Street has done a lot of,
Wall Street has a lot of extreme sayings,
and one of them is to buy when there is blood
in the streets, and I know that's very,
that's very extreme, but when it feels really uncomfortable
to buy, sometimes that's the right time to buy.
Okay, number four.
Never ever, ever, ever, ever use margin.
Many hedge funds and investment firms went bankrupt in 2008
as they used loans to invest, meaning margins.
And never do that, okay?
And just to quote Warren Buffett, these margin investments
or getting a loan to invest are financial weapons
of mass destruction and a quick side note.
What is a hedge fund?
A hedge is the same thing as a mutual fund
except instead of just buying stocks that are gonna go up,
they bet against stocks that are gonna go down,
and they call it a hedge fund because
in your backyard you have hedges, protecting,
anyway, your backyard, okay.
So in the next few lessons, we're gonna discuss
researching stocks in more detail.
And as we go through your investment management
portfolio system in Excel in a lot of detail,
I really want you to understand the concepts,
and if you don't, just let me know right away
but I think the best way to learn this stuff
is to dive right in right now.
We'll talk about real-life examples,
no theory in this course.
Thank you.